# Reflection

Respond to each of the questions below with a carefully thought out reflection on the assignment.

## Question 1
### In this assignment, we used your user input to construct a small website composed of flipping cards. Can you think of a more interesting use for this basic layout? The use you describe should serve some pedagogical or research-oriented purpose for historians or humanists.

An often-quoted reason for studying history is so we can learn from the tragedies of the past in order to build a better future. This is something I believe in very deeply. It may seem ridiculous to point out, however the best way to keep the past from re-forming as our future is to remember it. Remembrance is one of the concepts I am most passionate about, in particular preserving the memories of those who lived through the great struggles of the recent past. For example, soldiers who fought in World War Two. It is wonderful that so many of their stories have been recorded, but there is a gap when it comes to the stories of those who fought in World War One. This past March I had the chance to spend a week in Belgium, and I made a point of visiting Ieper to tour the In Flanders' Fields Museum and see Menin Gate. The museum has a fantastic interactive interface that pairs each visitor with a soldier who fought in Ieper, and as you go through the exhibits you get to see the story of 'your' soldier. This transforms raw historical facts into a personal narrative and allows the full horror of the war to be fully realized. For me, that impact was further driven home by my experience at Menin Gate. It is the complete opposite of the museum, as there is no personal interaction, just the unavoidable truth of tens of thousands of names lining every inch of the colossal monument. It is a devastating place to visit and had a profound impact on how I think about history. It can be difficult to impart the complexities of human history when teaching it to children. There is so much data and only so much time to learn it. Additionally, the black and white photographs and stern faces of the past do little to foster understanding for those who came before us. This is especially true when teaching Canadian youths about World War One. The battlefields are geographically distant, and the people lived too long ago to connect with modern children through the pages of a textbook. This assignment of creating an interactive index of our peers through a basic layout could be a great way to introduce elementary school aged children to the people who fought so long ago. Each flipping card could show a soldier or civilian who found themselves at the centre of a conflict. It would contain the basic details of their lives, as well as some personal information. Do we know what they wanted to do with their lives? Did they have a pet? What do we know about how the war impacted their life? Do we have any of their life story in their own words? This will help bring them back to life and flesh out their characters in a way that makes them relatable and real for modern children. It would also be an easily accessible starting point for researchers or writers looking for real stories and correct information. When we can connect to the past in a meaningful way it brings statistics off the page and gives a face and impetus to wanting to remember what should never be forgotten. 

## Question 2
### This assignment asks you all to perform a certian amount of work (describing yourselves) in order to improve a project (the course roster website). What responsibilities does the "researcher" (in this case, your teacher) have to the participants (you)? What rights do or should the participants have to the end product? 

As with many discussions of online responsibilities, the primary concern for me would be privacy and where else my image and information could show up. The 'researcher' has a responsibility to respect the information shared and to not further share it to other forums online or offline. The idea of consent also factors into this, as the participants have consented to have this set of personal information shared in this format, but not necessarily in any other way. As such, the participants should have the right to have this information removed from the website at the completion of the course. Once they are no longer in contact with their course peers or the teacher there is no reason their information should be available to either party. This generation has grown up with the internet and we are always aware that what is on the internet has the capacity to lasts forever. Once something is ‘posted’ we lose the ability to control where it goes and who can see it. It can be disconcerting to realize that in the online world privacy does not really exist. In the confines of this assignment the stakes are obviously not as high, but the same principles of the importance of safeguarding our identities apply.

## Question 3
### Information in each student record was provided as a series of "fields", that is, discrete units of information separated from each other. In the use you describe above, what fields would you need to provide for each record? Can you think of any limitations or obstacles that the use of this kind of data structure imposes on your project?

My idea was to create a simplistic repository of people who lived through great conflicts such as World War One. The goal would be to foster greater connection in the minds of children between the past and the present. Since it is targeted at younger children the information would have to be simple and clearly categorized. The fields provided for each record would have to contain 'dry' information such as birth and death dates and locations, their occupations, and what conflicts they were impacted by. It would also include fields showing more personal data. That is what makes the project potentially complicated for a couple of reasons. The chosen individuals would have to be carefully chosen so they could each satisfy all of the field requirements. Some personalizing fields could be simple, such as favourite colour, pets, and family members. Other fields would be more difficult to phrase, such as how they were individually impacted by the conflict they found themselves in. Keeping the format so basic makes it easily accessible, but that limits the amount of information that can be shared and the amount of people that can be profiled.